Walk in God’s light

Galatians 5:25

You make better choices when you can see things clearly. That’s why light is so
important; light makes it easier to see the right path. Heavenly Father has
given you access to heavenly light—the gift of the Holy Ghost—to help you see
clearly what is good and bad, right and wrong.

## Eternal Truths

At baptism you enter a joyful covenant relationship with Heavenly Father and
Jesus Christ. In the temple, you will make additional covenants that can
strengthen that relationship. Each week during the sacrament, you renew your
covenants. You express your willingness to keep the commandments, and the Lord
blesses you with the opportunity to have the Holy Spirit as your constant
companion. It is one of His greatest gifts to you.

Making good choices improves your ability to feel the Spirit. There are many
good and wholesome things in this world. Just as your body is affected by what
you eat and drink, your mind and spirit are profoundly affected by what you
read, watch, and listen to.

# Invitations

Make time for the Lord every day. Learn of Him. Always remember Him. Pray to
your Heavenly Father. Study the holy scriptures and the words of living
prophets. Then strive to live by what you learn.

Seek that which uplifts, inspires, and invites the Spirit. As you make choices
about what to watch, read, listen to, or participate in, think about how it
makes you feel. Does it invite good thoughts? Stay away from anything that
mocks sacred things or that is immoral. Don’t participate in anything that
dulls your judgment or sensitivity to the Spirit, such as violence, alcohol,
and harmful drugs. Have the courage to turn off a video or game, walk out of a
movie or a dance, change your music, or turn away from anything that is not
consistent with the Spirit.

Use social media to uplift. Social media can be a powerful communication tool.
If you use it, focus on light, faith, and truth. Don’t compare your life to
what other people seem to be experiencing. Remember that your worth comes from
being a child of heavenly parents, not from social media.

Seek wholesome experiences and real and lasting relationships. Be careful that
your use of technology and media does not replace spending in-person time with
family and friends. Social media and other technology can take much of your
time without giving a lot of value in return. Take a break from the virtual
world and connect with people in real life.

## Promised Blessings

You can have the Spirit with you always. The Holy Ghost will bear witness to
you of Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ. He will comfort, guide, warn, and
sanctify you. He will help you recognize truth and see the good in the world.

## Questions and Answers

How can I know if I’m feeling the Holy Ghost? Learning to be aware of the
Spirit takes time, practice, and patience. He speaks to different people in
different ways. Don’t overlook simple things—the peaceful feeling you get
hearing someone’s testimony or the unsettled feeling you get after making a
wrong choice. Search the scriptures for different ways the Spirit communicates,
pray about it, and keep looking for opportunities to feel the Spirit. 

What is pornography? Why should I avoid it? Pornography is a representation, in
pictures or words, that is designed to arouse sexual feelings. Pornography
comes in many forms, including videos, pictures, books, and music. It can also
be messages or images sent between friends. Pornography treats things that are
sacred—our physical bodies and sexual feelings—with disrespect. You may come
across pornography without meaning to. Whether you come across pornography
intentionally or not, turn away immediately. You may also want to talk with a
parent or other trusted adult. Intentionally viewing pornography is sinful and
harms your ability to feel the Spirit. It weakens your self-control and
distorts the way you see yourself and others. Jesus Christ has the power to
help you resist pornography and repent. Turn toward Him; turn away from
darkness. Your bishop can help you receive strength and forgiveness through the
Savior.

See 
- Amos 5:14 (seek good)
- Galatians 5:22–23 (the fruits of the Spirit)
- Moroni 7:18–19 (the light of Christ)
- Doctrine and Covenants 6:23 (the Lord speaks peace)
- 20:77, 79 (the sacrament prayers).

## Temple Recommend Questions

The Lord has said that all things are to be “done in cleanliness” before Him
(Doctrine and Covenants 42:41). Do you strive for moral cleanliness in your
thoughts and behavior?

Do you obey the law of chastity?

Do you strive to keep the Sabbath day holy, both at home and at church; attend
your meetings; prepare for and worthily partake of the sacrament; and live your
life in harmony with the laws and commandments of the gospel?

What to do in the moment

When you find yourself tempted to use media or technology in unhealthy
ways—whether it’s driving away the Spirit or even just wasting your time— try
the following:

1. Call it what it is. Acknowledge what you are tempted to do. You might even
   say it aloud—for example, “This image is pornography,” “This doesn’t feel
   right,” or “This could hurt someone’s feelings.”

2. Replace what you are doing with a better choice. Get away; move to another
   room or go outside. Focus on something good.

3. Connect with someone or something you love and respect— maybe a family
   member, a supportive friend, or your favorite scripture. Most of all,
   connect with your Heavenly Father, and pray for strength.

For more help, see “Media Safety” in the Gospel Library.
