# Your body is sacred

1 Corinthians 6:18–20

Your body is an amazing gift from your Heavenly Father. He gave it to you to
help you become more like Him. Having a body gives you increased power to
exercise your freedom to choose. The restored gospel of Jesus Christ can help
you see your body from God’s perspective. And that makes a big difference in
your choices about what to do with your body and how to care for it.

## Eternal Truths

Your body is in the image of God—the most glorious, majestic Being in the
universe. The scriptures compare our bodies to a holy temple, a place where the
Spirit can dwell. Of course, your body is not perfect now. But the experiences
you’re having with your body can help you prepare to receive one day a perfect,
resurrected, glorified body.

Your soul is made up of your body and your spirit. For this reason, physical
health and spiritual health are closely connected. The Savior revealed the Word
of Wisdom to teach principles of caring for your body—and to promise physical
and spiritual blessings.

Sexual feelings are an important part of God’s plan to create happy marriages
and eternal families. These feelings are not sinful—they are sacred. Because
sexual feelings are so sacred and so powerful, God has given you His law of
chastity to prepare you to use these feelings as He intends. The law of
chastity states that God approves of sexual activity only between a man and a
woman who are married. Many in the world ignore or even mock God’s law, but the
Lord invites us to be His disciples and live a standard higher than the
world’s.

## Invitations

Treat your body—and others’ bodies— with respect. As you make decisions about
your clothing, hairstyle, and appearance, ask yourself, “Am I honoring my body
as a sacred gift from God?” Heavenly Father wants us to see each other for who
we really are: not just physical bodies but His beloved children with a divine
destiny. Avoid styles that emphasize or draw inappropriate attention to your
physical body instead of who you are as a child of God with an eternal future.
Let moral cleanliness and love for God guide your choices. Seek counsel from
your parents.

Do things that will strengthen your body—nothing that will hurt or damage it.
Enjoy with gratitude the many good things God has provided. But remember that
alcohol, tobacco, coffee, tea, and other harmful drugs and substances are not
for your body or your spirit. Even helpful substances, like prescription drugs,
can be destructive if not used correctly.

Keep sex and sexual feelings sacred. They should not be the subject of jokes or
entertainment. Outside of marriage between a man and a woman, it is wrong to
touch the private, sacred parts of another person’s body even if clothed. In
your choices about what you do, look at, read, listen to, think about, post, or
text, avoid anything that purposely arouses lustful emotions in others or
yourself. This includes pornography in any form. If you find that situations or
activities make temptations stronger, avoid them. You know what those
situations and activities are. And if you aren’t sure, the Spirit, your
parents, and your leaders can help you know. Show your Father in Heaven that
you honor and respect the sacred power to create life.

## Promised Blessings

Your respect for yourself and others will increase as you honor your body
through your behavior, appearance, and dress.

The Lord has promised great treasures of knowledge to those who keep the Word
of Wisdom. A healthy body, free from addiction, also increases your ability to
receive personal revelation, think clearly, and serve the Lord.

Living the law of chastity brings God’s approval and personal spiritual power.
When you are married, this law will bring greater love, trust, and unity to
your marriage. Obeying this law will make it possible for you to progress
eternally and become more like your Heavenly Father. Your confidence will grow
as you live as a disciple of Jesus Christ.

## Questions and Answers

What is the Lord’s standard on dress, grooming, tattoos, and piercings? The
Lord’s standard is for you to honor the sacredness of your body, even when that
means being different from the world. Let this truth and the Spirit be your
guide as you make decisions— especially decisions that have lasting effects on
your body. Be wise and faithful, and seek counsel from your parents and
leaders.

How can I overcome temptations and bad habits? Heavenly Father and Jesus Christ
have the power to help you. Fill your life with things that invite that power
into your life, such as prayers, scripture study, and service to others. Turn
to Jesus Christ and His gospel and you will find that weaknesses can become
strengths. Seek help from parents, leaders, and professional counselors as
needed. For those who suffer from addiction, the Church offers an addiction
recovery program. These are blessings the Savior’s Church provides to help you
regain control of your life. It will take time, so be patient, and never give
up.

I am attracted to people of my same sex. How do these standards apply to me?
Feeling same-sex attraction is not a sin. If you have these feelings and do not
pursue or act on them, you are living Heavenly Father’s sacred law of chastity.
You are a beloved child of God and a disciple of Jesus Christ. Remember that
the Savior understands everything you experience. Through your covenant
connection with Him, you will find strength to obey God’s commandments and
receive the blessings He promises. Trust Him and His gospel.

I was abused, and I feel ashamed. Am I guilty of sin? Being a victim of any
abuse or assault does not make you guilty of sin. Please do not feel guilt or
shame. The Savior loves you. He wants to help you, heal you, and give you
peace. Professional counselors, your family members, and your leaders can also
help.

## References 

- Genesis 1:27 (we are created in God’s image)
- John 14:18 (the Savior promises comfort)
- Philippians 4:7 (the peace of God passes understanding)
- Doctrine and Covenants 88:15 (the spirit and the body are the soul)
- 89 (the Word of Wisdom)
- 121:45 (virtuous thoughts lead to increased confidence).

## Temple Recommend Questions

The Lord has said that all things are to be “done in cleanliness” before Him
(Doctrine and Covenants 42:41). Do you strive for moral cleanliness in your
thoughts and behavior?

Do you obey the law of chastity?

Do you understand and obey the Word of Wisdom?

## Caring for your body includes caring for your mental and emotional health

It’s normal to feel sad or anxious from time to time. When you are unable to
cope with those feelings and recover from them, that may be a sign of mental or
emotional challenges that require help from a parent, leader, doctor, or
professional counselor. Such help can be a blessing from your loving Father in
Heaven. If you ever have thoughts of harming yourself or ending your own life,
seek help right away. Remember, you are loved, valued, and needed. Whatever
your emotional or mental struggles may be, seek peace in Jesus Christ and His
gospel.
